ref/README.md, before:

# OD structure

OD is keept as JSON object. Expected data format:

```js
{
    '1000': { otype: OTYPE.VAR, dtype: DTYPE.UNSIGNED32, name: 'Device Type', value: 0x1389 },
    '1008': { otype: OTYPE.VAR, dtype: DTYPE.VISIBLE_STRING, name: 'Device Name', data: '' },
    '1009': { otype: OTYPE.VAR, dtype: DTYPE.VISIBLE_STRING, name: 'Hardware Version', data: '' },
    '100A': { otype: OTYPE.VAR, dtype: DTYPE.VISIBLE_STRING, name: 'Software Version', data: '' },
    '1018': { otype: OTYPE.RECORD, name: 'Identity Object', items: [
        { name: 'Max SubIndex' },
        { name: 'Vendor ID', dtype: DTYPE.UNSIGNED32, value: 600 },
        { name: 'Product Code', dtype: DTYPE.UNSIGNED32 },
        { name: 'Revision Number', dtype: DTYPE.UNSIGNED32 },
        { name: 'Serial Number', dtype: DTYPE.UNSIGNED32, data: '&Obj.serial' },
    ]},
    '1C00': { otype: OTYPE.ARRAY, dtype: DTYPE.UNSIGNED8, name: 'Sync Manager Communication Type', items: [
        { name: 'Max SubIndex' },
        { name: 'Communications Type SM0', value: 1 },
        { name: 'Communications Type SM1', value: 2 },
        { name: 'Communications Type SM2', value: 3 },
        { name: 'Communications Type SM3', value: 4 },
    ]},
}   
```

There is 4 parts to it: 
- `sdo`, not mapped to PDOs
- `txpdo`, mapped to TXPDO (SM3). Expected format (for OTYPE VAR):
```js
{
    '6000': { otype: OTYPE.VAR, dtype: DTYPE.UNSIGNED32, name: 'TXPDO', value: 0x1389, pdo_mappings: ['tx'] },
}
```
- `rxpdo`, same as above, but `pdo_mappings: ['rx']`
- mandatory objects. These are added at code gen stage, with values populated form UI controls.

Code generation copies all values into single OD, adds PDO mappings and SM assignments. 

## PDO mappings

Currently single, not dynamic PDO is supported for TX and RX respectively.

# Binary file comparison tool: [VBinDiff](https://www.cjmweb.net/vbindiff/VBinDiff-Win32)

```cmd
VBinDiff ref/et1100.bin  ref/lan9252.bin
```

# MIME types

HEX .bin file was not yet tested. 
Not sure about mime type
https://www.sitepoint.com/mime-types-complete-list/


# TODO
- objectlist.c : 0x1400 vs 0x1600 for SM2?
- check generated XML for PDOs
- check generated C, XML code
- check .bin output
- test if code compilation works
- test on real HW
- DC configuration
### non critical / known issues
- use [XML parsing](https://www.w3schools.com/xml/xml_parser.asp) for ESI output
- add option to switch between .bin and Intel HEX for EEPROM file output
- add indexes list to OD model, to decrease parametes count in methods
- save backup before form processing (now even valid OD changes can be erased by error in code generation logic)
- make GUI look more nice & modern
- add favicon
### Code optimization
- reuse repeated string constants in objlist.c names, test if does any good or compiler does that for you anyway
- shrink to fit on AVR ATmega

Commit message:

Added hack to generate SM2 mappings at 0x1600 regardless of SM2 offset selected on UI

ref/README.md, after:

# OD structure

OD is keept as JSON object. Expected data format:

```js
{
    '1000': { otype: OTYPE.VAR, dtype: DTYPE.UNSIGNED32, name: 'Device Type', value: 0x1389 },
    '1008': { otype: OTYPE.VAR, dtype: DTYPE.VISIBLE_STRING, name: 'Device Name', data: '' },
    '1009': { otype: OTYPE.VAR, dtype: DTYPE.VISIBLE_STRING, name: 'Hardware Version', data: '' },
    '100A': { otype: OTYPE.VAR, dtype: DTYPE.VISIBLE_STRING, name: 'Software Version', data: '' },
    '1018': { otype: OTYPE.RECORD, name: 'Identity Object', items: [
        { name: 'Max SubIndex' },
        { name: 'Vendor ID', dtype: DTYPE.UNSIGNED32, value: 600 },
        { name: 'Product Code', dtype: DTYPE.UNSIGNED32 },
        { name: 'Revision Number', dtype: DTYPE.UNSIGNED32 },
        { name: 'Serial Number', dtype: DTYPE.UNSIGNED32, data: '&Obj.serial' },
    ]},
    '1C00': { otype: OTYPE.ARRAY, dtype: DTYPE.UNSIGNED8, name: 'Sync Manager Communication Type', items: [
        { name: 'Max SubIndex' },
        { name: 'Communications Type SM0', value: 1 },
        { name: 'Communications Type SM1', value: 2 },
        { name: 'Communications Type SM2', value: 3 },
        { name: 'Communications Type SM3', value: 4 },
    ]},
}   
```

There is 4 parts to it: 
- `sdo`, not mapped to PDOs
- `txpdo`, mapped to TXPDO (SM3). Expected format (for OTYPE VAR):
```js
{
    '6000': { otype: OTYPE.VAR, dtype: DTYPE.UNSIGNED32, name: 'TXPDO', value: 0x1389, pdo_mappings: ['tx'] },
}
```
- `rxpdo`, same as above, but `pdo_mappings: ['rx']`
- mandatory objects. These are added at code gen stage, with values populated form UI controls.

Code generation copies all values into single OD, adds PDO mappings and SM assignments. 

## PDO mappings

Currently single, not dynamic PDO is supported for TX and RX respectively.

# Binary file comparison tool: [VBinDiff](https://www.cjmweb.net/vbindiff/VBinDiff-Win32)

```cmd
VBinDiff ref/et1100.bin  ref/lan9252.bin
```

# MIME types

HEX .bin file was not yet tested. 
Not sure about mime type
https://www.sitepoint.com/mime-types-complete-list/


# TODO
- SM2 offset: regardles of value set, SDK generates RXPDO mappings as SDO1600. SM2 offset chanfe affects
     `ecat_options.h` #define SM2_sma, MAX_TXPDO_SIZE and MAX_RXPDO_SIZE
     and `esi.xml` `<Sm ControlByte="#x24" Enable="1" StartAddress="#x1600">Outputs</Sm>`
- check boolean[] ARRAY
- check VISIBLE_STRING ARRAY
- check VISIBLE_STRING RECORD subitem
- check generated XML for PDOs
- check generated C, XML code
- check .bin output
- test if code compilation works
- test on real HW
- DC configuration
### non critical / known issues
- use [XML parsing](https://www.w3schools.com/xml/xml_parser.asp) for ESI output
- add option to switch between .bin and Intel HEX for EEPROM file output
- add indexes list to OD model, to decrease parametes count in methods
- save backup before form processing (now even valid OD changes can be erased by error in code generation logic)
- make GUI look more nice & modern
- add favicon
### Code optimization
- reuse repeated string constants in objlist.c names, test if does any good or compiler does that for you anyway
- shrink to fit on AVR ATmega
